So getting to Linux,
Linux isn't directly Unix,
it's not like you have the Unix codebase,
they took that and they made that Linux.
What happened with Linux is this guy,
Linus Torvalds like sat in a room and
basically created his own version of Unix,
and he tried to be compatible where it
made sense but he also branched off in
his own directions when he wanted to.
Cuz at the time there was no free and
open source version of Unix that he was
satisfied with and that's because
BSD was not out yet at that point.
BSD by the way, I think stands for
Berkeley Software Distribution, yeah,
Berkeley Software Distribution.
I learned that when I was researching for
this course.
So yeah, Linus was unsatisfied
with the free offerings.
BSD didn't exist when he started, but
it did exist by the time
that he finished Linux.
Yeah, and something I found interesting
about Linux is actually he didn't
want to call it Linux cuz they
thought it would be too considered
to name something after himself.
So they went through a couple names
before they actually landed on Linux.
Actually, I don't even
think it was someone else.
It was someone else that actually said no,
you're gonna call Linux and
that that's what actually
ended up sticking.
So suffice to say, Linux is extremely
important to modern computing.
As of the writing of this course, all
top 500 supercomputers run on Linux and
that's a relatively recent change
that there were some that ran on
different operating systems, but
as of today, all top 500 run on Linux.
Much of the mobile phone market
shares on Linux which is Android,
which is a Linux derivative.
And pretty much almost all of
the websites that you know and
love are running on Linux.
Some of them are running on Windows but
many of them are running on Linux.
Me personally like all of my
servers that I ever do for for
work has always been on Linux for
my entire career.
So, why would you choose Linux over
something like say like Windows which is
obviously I work at Microsoft,
I think it's a fine operating system.
I have my Windows computer right here.
Probably slightly off of frame for
that you can see but
I use Windows quite a bit as well.
But why do people continue to choose Linux
over other things they could choose?
Well, the first thing that's probably
important to a lot of companies and
probably many of you is that it's free.
It's free.
It's open source.
It's online.
You never ever have to pay there's
no one to pay for it right?
So that's important for college
students that need an operating system.
But it's also important for
like really big companies that
have tens of thousands of servers.
That's millions and millions of dollars
of licensing that they don't have to pay.
It's very well maintained because it's so
widespread.
There's just a ton of
eyes looking at it and
there's multiple companies
that their entire thing,
their entire reason of being is to work
on Linux like Redhat and Canonical.
And so there's a lot of really smart
people working at Linux at any given time.
So it's very well maintained.
If you have like real bugs,
people are going to find them.
You can report them and
you yourself can contribute,
if Linux doesn't do something
that you need it to do,
you are also welcome to hop into
the mailing list and contribute.
It runs just about anywhere.
It runs on Intel processors.
It runs on AMD.
It runs on ARM,
it runs of Internet of Things.
It runs on phones, fridges, cars.
If it has a processor in it, chances
are you can probably run Linux on it.
Well, chances are it's probably
already running the Linux.
I know of Teslas, for example, and Audis
run Linux on the car, so it's everywhere.
Most of the things you need for
it already exist.
Being around from the 70s and so
many people using it means that if you
have a problem, chances are someone else
already had your problem and solved it.
So there's a great ecosystem around it.
And just the knowledge base for
Linux is enormous, right?
It's a huge business.
So if you know Linux there's a good
chance you can get a job doing Linux and
if you need to hire someone, chances are,
there's many experts out there that
are waiting to be hired for it.
So that's kind of the ecosystem reasons.
It's also just technically predictable,
I think, and stable.
And I think that really inspires a lot
of confidence in a lot of people.
So we're gonna talk about all of
these things I'm just kidding.
I don't know anything about anything that
I'm showing on the screen right now.
But I want to show you like this is
actually the disparate pieces of what
makes Linux, Linux.
So this is actually the kernel which
is kind of the core part of Linux.
And this is kind of what goes into the
kernel and how it relates to each other.
Again, I don't really know
anything about this, but
I wanted to show you that it can be
distilled down to a graphic anyway.
And again, I got this from Wikipedia you
can see down here here's the citation.
But I wanted to get to what
makes something a Linux and
what makes something a distribution,
because for me until I researched it,
it actually was kinda unclear to me as
why is Ubuntu different from RedHat.
Why are those two separate things?
What do they share?
What makes Linux, Linux?
And the answer to that question is
they all share the same microkernel,
which is like the central part that
does all of these things, right?
So it handles memory, it handles
scheduling, it handles processes,
it handles the file system,
all that stuff is part of the kernel.
So all of Redhat and Ubuntu and Debian and
Mint, those are all sharing that kernel,
and then they're building stuff around it,
right?
And that's what you'd
call a distribution or
often they're just called distros, right?
And there are so so so
many distros, right?
There's one Linux kernel, but there's a
billion different distributions of Linux.
And they all kind of specialise
in different things.
In this class,
we're going to be going over Ubuntu,
which is just the one that I've used
the most and probably the most common, so
it's probably the most useful for
you to learn on.
But I'm by no means asserting this is
the only one that you should use or
anything like that.
I'm pretty sure there's someone in
the chat that fight me that Arch is like
the best thing ever and that we should
all be using Kali Linux and then Mint on
our phones and I don't know, there's
just so many different distributions.
But these distributions they'll add
software on top of the kernel so
they'll have like different
desktop experiences
they'll have different programs,
they'll have different package managers,
they'll have different
networking capabilities, right?
They kind of take those
microkernel abilities and
they expand that out into
a full operating system.
So hopefully that kind of demystifies
a little bit like what's the difference
between what makes something Linux and
what a distribution is.
The one thing I did want to call
about Ubuntu is it's a downstream
distribution of another
distribution called Debian.
So Debian has been around forever, and
it's one of the more popular
Linux distributions.
I actually still use it quite a bit.
Like if you download the Node.js
container off of Docker Hub,
it's actually deviant image
which I found very interesting.
So Ubuntu kind of took Debian and
polish it up and
made it like the user
experience a little bit nicer.
Ubuntu is backed by a company called
Canonical and they're a great company.
And so that's kind of why I
choose Ubuntu over Debian.
And there's actually even a downstream
from Ubuntu called Mint as well.
So if you want to even go further down
the line that's possible as well.
Ubuntu is just a good one to learn
because it's very flexible in all
of its applications, it can apply to
internet of things, it can literally be
like your desktop computer's
operating system, it can run servers.
It's all over the place.
So that's a good reason to learn
Ubuntu is it's flexible and
all the things that it can do.
But I'm going to just toss down
here at the bottom you can see
I threw a couple more that I have used and
I think are pretty good.
One being Debian, Mint is another
one that's based on Ubuntu.
RedHat that's another like very
enterprisey like large scale server.
It's actually owned by IBM now.
Alpine I use quite a bit.
Alpine is for
making very minimal containers.
And we're not gonna be talking at
all about containers today, but
there's another great Frontend Masters
course on containers by this guy.
[LAUGH] So if you want to learn about
containers that's out there as well.
Kali, there's Arch is another
one that didn't have on here,
CentOS like there's a bunch of stuff
that you can get into as well.
So that's kind of the history
of like what is Linux?
Yeah.
>> Is the question about what is
downstream?
>> That's a good question.
So when I'm saying downstream.
So there's a distribution of
Linux called Debian, right?
There's a open source community
that maintains Debian and
that's the lowest level or lowest level
is not the correct term for that.
So Debian is like the mother
distribution here, right?
And then they take Debian,
and they add more code on top of it that
makes it a downstream distribution, right.
So there's Debian and
then they build stuff on top of it and
that makes it Ubuntu.
And then they build stuff on top of
that and it makes it Mint, right?
So they're taking a base distribution that
someone else has made or a whole community
has made and they're adding stuff around
it, that's what downstream means.
So, Ubuntu is downstream from Debian,
in that respect.
Clear as mud?
Probably.